So we've done a lot in this section, we took the app from not having a database, not having a way
to persist data, to having it persisting and saving data and so forth.
And along the way, of course, we'll learn what a room database is as part of the jetpack components.
The Room Persistence Library provides an abstraction layer over skylight to allow for more robust database
access while harnessing the full power of SQL like.
So the idea here really is that with room, we no longer need to really fight hard to create a lot of
different classes, or we're having to deal with a lot of different classes to create our database.
So it really abstract out or gets rid of all the boilerplate code that we had to deal with before to
deal to create databases.
So it's really great.
And we learn, of course, about D-I dependency injection.
So we learn the advantages of doing dependency when an object requires another object to function properly.
OK, so for instance, we learn that a car may need an engine and so the car depends on the engine.
And so we learned that although manually, we can actually create those dependencies, there's dependency
injections.
But withheld is way better because manually, as the app scales, it can be very difficult to manage
dependencies.
So hilt, of course, solves that problem because we then gained reusability of code.
We can ease of refactoring that code and ease of testing, which is very important.
So back to room database, we also realized that we need to have some sort of solid structure so that
our apps doesn't crumble as the complexity increases, right?
So we looked at the room database, but in a different light in that we created a data access object
which is responsible for dealing with the lower level dealing.
So processes like getting to our single light, looking at the entities tables and getting the data
or deleting and do all the crowd operations right.
And then we put together the repository layer, which essentially is not that important in the sense.
It's not important for this to work in this whole system to work.
But nonetheless, it's a very special crucial, if I may say piece of this puzzle here, because it
allows us to have some sort of single source of truth for all, for all app data.
So we get this clean API for the UI to communicate with.
OK, so at the top level after a repository, then we have the view model.
So in this case, also remember that the repository has an instance via the dependency injection thankfully
has has any sense of the doubt because it needs to access the database.
And also the view model will have access to the repository because then it has to connect and get the
data.
OK, now at this level here of the model, we have different aerostructures we could use to get still
that state right to hold that data in the state, which is needed for our user interface.
So there is life data looked at immutable states and so forth.
But it turns out, was at this point the best way to use the best way to actually use this room in this
structure is to use flow state, which is another mechanism that allows us to get that state highway,
which is needed for us to be able to communicate and emit the data in a stream to our user interface
to then react and to itself.
And of course, how long that goes way.
We talked about a little bit about core routines and suspend function.
So the idea you want to take away from the core 5:42 bank function says, is that these are mechanisms
that allow us to do work in the background away from the main user interface and maybe from the main
UI thread, because it's important to know that in Android, the UI thread only needs to worry about
showing the data or showing the user interface.
I should say to the user to interact with so we don't want to bog down, you know, the user the UI
thread, because then our applications will stop and be responsive.
Ultimately, the operating system will then shut them down.
And that's not good, right?
So that is the nutshell of quarantines and suspend functions and flows and so forth.
OK, so that was a lot that we did.
And please go back.
If there are things that are not really that you missing, it's OK.
You can't always go back and rewatch certain videos and ask questions and do some research if you want
to.
If you're more curious about certain topics such as flow and even quality in the sense that we didn't
really dive deep into them.
That's totally fine.
All right.
Very excited.
I hope you enjoy this section, and I hope you've learned a lot.
And please feel free also to take the app and make your own.
Do more work on it, or perhaps you have other applications you would want to create.
But now you have the base part of it, right?
You have the database how to put together a database, you understand all of that.
So you can now do all sorts of things.
I encourage you to do so if you do so.
Don't forget to share what you build with all of us so we can congratulate you again.
So grateful you're here.
Thank you so much, and I'll see you next time.